In the previous lesson, we learned a little bit about pandas, but now comes the good part, which
is when we're going to connect this notebook to our drive so that we can extract from there any file
we can bring to pandas.
To do this, we're going to go from Google Dot CoLab and let's import drive.
This step is very important.
After this line, we're going to write drive, dot, mount.
And here we're going to put the path that will connect us to our drive.
And this, in inverted commas, is with slash content, slash drive.
This is the first part.
And we run this cell and this is going to load and it's going to say, permit this notebook to access
your Google Drive files.
And here we should choose connect to Google Drive.
This opens a pop up window where we can select our account.
Then we choose allow and our drive is mounted.
Now I'm going to import a file that I have in this drive, which you can see here.
It's called car sales, dot, CSV, and I have it in my drive.
So in order to incorporate it, we're going to create a variable called car sales, which is going to
be the variable that is going to contain our file and it's going to be the same as a panda object with
the read CSV method.
Well, now I have to put the path which is going to start with the slash, then content another slash
and then drive and another slash.
So far it's going to be the same for everybody.
Then comes my drive, but I'm going to find it by pressing control and space, and it gives me the option
to load the next option, which is my drive.
If I press control and space again, it shows me all the folders I have in my drive and I choose CoLab
notebooks.
Perfect.
And now I'm going to finally type the name of the file, which is car sales dot CSP.
This is supposed to import into this file, but we're going to display it by invoking the variable car
sales.
We run this cell and here you can see the data frame that has the information from the file I was showing
you.
It has ten rows from 0 to 9 and it has five columns with the relevant categories.
This will be the data frame that we're going to work with and we're going to do a lot of things with
this.
On the one hand, if you have a data frame, you can transform it back into a CSV file.
Here you can see the folder I'm going to send it to through a very simple method.
First, we call the data frame called car sales and we apply the method to CSV.
We put in brackets the place where we want it to be saved and we copy this.
We're going to give it a name that distinguishes it like this file dot csv.
Then it will be saved inside the folder test inside colab notebooks.
So if I run it and if I go down to my drive and I go to test, I will find this file dot csv.
We made it.
So now we're going to analyze the types of data available in the data frame called car sales.
We call car sales, we assign it to the property DX types.
And this brings up a little analysis.
It shows us all the columns it has with the name and the data type of each one, which in this case
are objects or integers.
Now let's apply descriptive statistics to know our data frame to know it's number of values, the mean,
the standard deviation, minimum and maximum values and the quartiles.
But then we have to write a lot to achieve this.
No, not at all.
We call car sales, apply the described method and execute.
And here we get a description only for the columns that have numbers of all the properties.
For each of the columns, we see a count of the total mileage, the mean, the standard deviation,
and here we have the minimum value, the quartiles and the maximum values for each of these two columns.
If we had more columns with numerical values, we would have many more columns here.
So now let's see how to get information from the dataframe using the info method.
If we put Carsales and apply info, it's going to bring us another piece of information.
It's going to tell us what kind of class this data frame is.
It will tell us that it has ten entries ranging from 0 to 9, that it has a total of five columns.
And in this table, it shows us the index, the name of the columns, the count of the values that are
not null, and the type of data then some of the values according to their data type and memory usage.
So if we want to list the column names of our data frame, we call Carsales columns, and this brings
up all the columns it has.
We can also know the length of our data frames by applying.
Len.
We already knew this when we worked with lists and we pass Carsales as an argument.
We run it and it tells us that it has ten items.
Now we're going to show the first rows of dataframe.
In order to do this, we call Carsales and Apply Head, which will show us the first five rows.
So that's the amount of rows that head shows by default.
If we want a different amount, for example seven we call Carsales head and in parenthesis we put seven
as a parameter.
So now it's going to show us the first seven rows.
And if we wanted to see the last rows instead of head, we call Carsales and we apply tail.
And there it is.
And just like head by default, it shows the last five records.
But if you put three, you're going to see the last three and so on.
We can also use the lock method to select a row that, for example, can be an index three of our dataframe.
So let's see, I put Carsales again and we apply lock and there's a parameter.
We put three.
When we run it, it brings us the information that corresponds to that record for each of the columns.
But if we want to ask for more than one record at a time, we have another very similar method, the
one just now that was lock.
But with this one, it is called eye lock.
And we're going to use it to fetch rows three, seven and nine carsales eye lock.
And in square brackets, we pass another group of square brackets containing three, seven and nine.
We execute and we receive the data of those three rows in particular.
Here are some links to the documentation for you to see some of the differences and additional resources
you can find in these two methods.
So now let's see how we can select a particular column, for example, the mileage column.
We do it in the same way we call an index by first putting the name of our dataframe and then putting
between braces the name of the column you want to extract, not to the index number.
So here we have to choose the column.
I'm going to choose mileage and I run it and it brings me all the values of that column.
If I want to find the average value of the column mileage, I do the same.
I put car sales I call mileage again.
But after that I apply the mean method, which is going to bring us the average of all the miles that
are here.
Now we're going to select those columns that have only values greater than 100,000 miles in this column.
Yes, we can do that as well.
Not just bring up a particular column or calculate its average, but filter which ones we want to display
and which ones we don't want to display.
We do it pretty much the same way we call car sales.
We open a key and now we have to invoke car sales again with the key mileage.
We choose that key.
And before we close the second key, we tell it that we only want the ones that are greater than 100,000.
When we execute this, it will bring us only two records, which are Toyota and Nissan, which have
exceeded that mileage.
So now we're going to create a double entry cross table between manufacturer and doors.
So let's see how we do this.
We invoke a panda object cross tab.
This method is allows us to generate a cross table and in its parameters we're going to put that we
need to do it with car sales and that we need to do it with the column manufacturer.
Then we call the second argument, which would be the second data series, which is going to be car
sales, but with the series doors.
So let's run.
And it brings us the cross table where the manufacturers are.
And here a series of columns for each value of the category doors, which are three, four and five.
Then in the cross table we can see the distribution of the ten records, according to the coincidence
between manufacturer and number of doors.
For example, Toyota manufacturers one car with three doors and three cars with four doors.
So the next task is to try to group the columns by manufacturer and look for the average value of the
numerical columns.
So let's see how we do this.
We call car sales, and we apply a new method called Group B, and how are we going to group them?
We're going to group them by manufacturer, which is what the prompt asks for, and that's not all it
asks us for the average of manufacturer.
So after the key and the parentheses we call the method mean and now we execute it.
And we have these columns grouped by manufacturer and giving us the average of all the numerical columns.
And the last thing that's missing is a sort of introduction to math plot lib, which is a tool that's
really going to blow your mind.
So we're going to leave that for the next lesson because it's the step that opens the door to a world
of extremely rich resources.
So we'll leave it for the next lesson so we can take it a little easy.